[DOCS] Fingerprint ingest processor (#68610)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ingest/processors/fingerprint.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[fingerprint-processor]]
=== Fingerprint processor
++++
<titleabbrev>Fingerprint</titleabbrev>
++++

> Calculates a hash that can be used for content fingerprinting based on the
> content of the specified fields in a document.

Reviewer: Nit: I'd split this into two sentences for clarity.
```suggestion
Computes a hash of the document's content. You can use this hash for
{wikipedia}/Fingerprint_(computing)[content fingerprinting].
```

[[fingerprint-options]]
.Fingerprint Options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name               | Required | Default       | Description

> | `fields`           | yes      | n/a           | Array containing the names of the document
> fields whose content will be used to compute the fingerprint

Reviewer: I'd clarify "content" here as we discussed offline. I'd also add a period for consistency.
```suggestion
| `fields`           | yes      | n/a           | Array of fields to include in
the fingerprint. For objects, the processor hashes both the field key and
value. For other fields, the processor hashes only the field value.
```

| `target_field`     | no       | `fingerprint` | Output field for the fingerprint.

> | `salt`             | no       | <none>        | Salt value that will be applied to every
> fingerprint calculated by this processor

Reviewer: Nit: I'd add a link and a period.
```suggestion
| `salt`             | no       | <none>        |
{wikipedia}/Salt_(cryptography)[Salt value] for the hash function.
```

| `method`           | no       | `SHA-1`       | The cryptographic hash function used to
compute the fingerprint. Must be one of `MD5`, `SHA-1`, `SHA-256`, or `SHA-512`.

> | `ignore_missing`   | no       | `false`       | If true, any missing elements in `fields`
> will be ignored when computing the fingerprint. If all fields are missing, the processor
> silently exits without modifying the document.

Reviewer: Minor nit: I'd make `true` a literal and reword the first sentence for active voice.
```suggestion
| `ignore_missing`   | no       | `false`       | If `true`, the processor
ignores any missing `fields`. If all fields are missing, the processor silently
exits without modifying the document.
```

include::common-options.asciidoc[]
|======

[discrete]
[[fingerprint-processor-ex]]

> ===== Examples

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
===== Example
```

The following example illustrates the use of the fingerprint processor:

[source,console]
----
POST _ingest/pipeline/_simulate
{
  "pipeline": {
    "processors": [
      {
        "fingerprint": {
          "fields": ["user"]
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "docs": [
    {
      "_source": {
        "user": {
          "last_name": "Smith",
          "first_name": "John",
          "date_of_birth": "1980-01-15",
          "is_active": true
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

Which produces the following result:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "doc": {
        ...
        "_source": {
          "fingerprint" : "WbSUPW4zY1PBPehh2AA/sSxiRjw=",
          "user" : {
            "last_name" : "Smith",
            "first_name" : "John",
            "date_of_birth" : "1980-01-15",
            "is_active" : true
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/\.\.\./"_index":"_index","_id":"_id","_ingest":{"timestamp":$body.docs.0.doc._ingest.timestamp},/]

> // NOTCONSOLE

Reviewer: I tested this snippet locally with the changes in #68415. Should be good to remove `// NOTCONSOLE` once #68415 is merged.
